---
layout: post
title: "Changes in Selenide 2.25"
description: ""
category:
header-text: "the last of 2.*"
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Good evening!

Today we released Selenide 2.25. It's the last Selenide version in 2.* line. 
A big refactoring, clean-up of deprecated stuff and Selenide 3.0 follows soon.

Please review your tests and be sure you don't use any @Deprecated methods. We are going to remove them in Selenide 3.0.

But now - Selenide 2.25 highlights:

## We added "Selenide profiler" for TestNG

You probably know that Selenide suggests a profiler for your tests named [PrettyReportCreator](http://selenide.org/2015/05/05/selenide-2.16-and-2.17/).
It was only available for JUnit until now. Now we created the same profiler for TestNG.  

By the way, we renamed it to `TextReport`.

To use profiler with JUnit:

```java
  @Rule
  public TestRule report = new TextReport();
```

To use profiler with TestNG:

```java
  @Listeners(TextReport.class)
  public class GoogleTestNGTest {
    ...
  }
```

## We added methods `$$.first()` and `$$.last()`

Now it's easy to get the first and the last elements of a collection:

```java
  $$("#employees .fired").first().shouldHave(text("Steve Jobs"));
  $$("#employees .fired").last().shouldHave(text("Richard Williamson"));
```

## We added method `Screenshots.getLastScreenshot()`

It returns _the last_ screenshot taken by Selenide. It's can be useful for those who wants to integrate
Selenide with reporting frameworks like Allure.

By the way, we renamed method `getScreenShotAsFile()` to `takeScreenShotAsFile()`, because the former name was 
wrong: this method does take a screenshot, not only returns a screenshot. 
 
## We added methods Selenide.confirm() and Selenide.dismiss()

For handling modal dialogs, Selenide had methods `confirm(String)` and `dismiss(String)` with parameter - expected dialog text.

```java
  confirm("Are you sure you want to remove file?");
  dismiss("Are you sure you want to remove file?");
```

These methods click "ok" or "cancel" in a modal dialog "confirm" and check the dialog's text.

But sometimes you don't need to check the text. That's why we added parameterless methods `confirm()` and `dismiss()`:

```java
  String text = confirm();
  String text = dismiss();
```

these methods do not check, but return dialog text.  

## We added option `-Dselenide.reopenBrowserOnFail`

By default Selenide tries to re-open browser if it died. It seems to be a good idea: one test fails, but the following
tests will continue running.

But sometimes you want to avoid re-opening the browser and let all other tests fail. 

In this case just use the new option: `-Dselenide.reopenBrowserOnFail=false`

## Upgraded to htmlunit 2.19

Some folks think that HtmlUnit is died, but we still like it. At least tests of Selenide itself run stably on HtmlUnit.

## Changed Selenide license MIT

We wrote about license [in a separate post](http://selenide.org/2015/11/16/selenide-changes-license-to-mit/), but shortly said - 
MIT license is the most permissive. We hope that some bureaucratic companies who are afraid of "GPL" characters can now start using Selenide.

<br/>

# News

* [Selenide presentation](/2015/11/13/selenide-on-devoxx/) on Devoxx 2015 - the biggest Java conference in Europe

<br/>

And what's up with you?

<br/>

Andrei Solntsev

selenide.org
