---
layout: post
title: "Changes in Selenide 2.20"
description: ""
category:
header-text: "Protection against webdriver hanging and standard logging"
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Hi all!

We have released Selenide 2.20. Let me tell you what's new there.

## Protection against webdriver hanging

Sometimes we experience problems with webdriver: it hangs when trying to open or close browser. 
This thread just remains endlessly in the same state: "Forwarding newSession on session null to remote". 
 I guess it's a bug in webdriver.
 
We added protection against this problem in Selenide 2.20.

Now Selenide runs opening/closing browser in a separate thread and limits its time. By default opening browser cannot take more than 15 seconds, and closing browser cannot take more than 5 seconds.
In case of failure, Selenide re-tries (up to 3 times) and only then throws an exception. 

Thank you [@admizh](https://github.com/admizh) for this suggestion!

See [Issue 199](https://github.com/codeborne/selenide/issues/199) and [Issue 204](https://github.com/codeborne/selenide/issues/204)

## Selenide now uses java.util.logging for logging

Up to now, Selenide used `System.out` and `System.err` for printing its messages.

Actually I think that this is good enough for testing. It's simple and reliable.

But people often use different libraries/frameworks, and want to use common logging mechanism across all tests. That's why we migrated Selenide to use "standard" mechanism `java.util.logging` (JUL).

> To be honest, I don't like jul. I think that log4j or slf4j is much better. But Selenium already uses JUL, so it seemed reasonable to use JUL also in Selenide instead of adding new dependencies.

Good news is that you don't need to do anything to use the new logging. It works automatically. It prints logs to standard system output (aka console) by default. But it's not beautiful:

```java
Jul 25, 2015 10:48:21 PM com.codeborne.selenide.impl.WebDriverThreadLocalContainer createDriver
INFO: Create webdriver: 1 -> FirefoxDriver: firefox on MAC (3e54e3de-b212-2a45-93ad-712aae6ee853)
```

To make it more readable (if you haven't yet configured JUL in your project), you can add the following line in the beginning of your tests:
 

```java
System.setProperty("java.util.logging.SimpleFormatter.format", "%1$tT %4$s %5$s%6$s%n");
```

If you prefer `slf4j`, just add dependency `org.slf4j:jul-to-slf4j:1.7.12` to your project and these lines in the beginning of your tests:

```java
SLF4JBridgeHandler.removeHandlersForRootLogger();
SLF4JBridgeHandler.install();
```

Now Selenide logs will look better:

```java
22:48:15 INFO  INFO: Create webdriver: 1 -> FirefoxDriver: firefox on MAC (3e54e3de-b212-2a45-93ad-712aae6ee853)
```

See [Issue 195](https://github.com/codeborne/selenide/issues/195) 

## Fixed Cookies usage when downloading file
Thank you [@philipp-kolesnikov](https://github.com/philipp-kolesnikov) for this [pull request](https://github.com/codeborne/selenide/pull/191)! 

## Added support for element collections to Page Objects

Now you can declare an elements collection in your page object:

```java
public class SearchResultsPage {
  @FindBy(css = "#ires li.g")
  private ElementsCollection results;
```

See [Issue 186](https://github.com/codeborne/selenide/issues/186) 

Thank you [@rishaselfing](https://github.com/rishaselfing) for the suggestion!

## Method $("select").shouldHave(text("...")) now checks the selected option

Up to now, the `$("select").shouldHave(text("..."))` check was quite useless, because it checked texts of **all** `<option>` elements, not only selected ones. Now it checks only texts of **selected** option(s). 
 
And method `$("select").getText()` returns only texts of selected option(s). 

See [Issue 134](https://github.com/codeborne/selenide/issues/134) 

## Added method for taking screenshot of one element or region

Sometimes screenshots appear to be useless. When page is too big, the required element does not always fit to the screenshot. In this case you can find useful the new function for taking screenshot of one element.

It's so easy to use:

```java
    File screenshot = $("#some-div").screenshot();
```

See [Issue 66](https://github.com/codeborne/selenide/issues/66) 

## All methods `$(String, ...)` made deprecated

Please be sure that you don't use deprecated methods. We are going to remove then in one of next Selenide versions (probably in Selenide 3.0).

Now there is a better way to add explanation to your checks using `because` function:

```java
$("h1").shouldHave(text("Some wrong test").because("it's wrong text"));
$("h1").waitUntil(hidden.because("it's sensitive information"), 100);
```

## Removed cglib-nodep from Selenide dependencies

We found what `cglib-nodep` dependency is too old and useless. And it can sometimes conflict with other project dependencies. It seems that it doesn't support Java 8 and haven't been updated for 5 years.

So we removed cglib-nodep from Selenide dependencies.

If you still need cglib-nodep for some reason, just add dependency `cglib:cglib-nodep:jar:3.1` to your project.


<br/>

# I need your help!

Please vote for my submission to SeleniumConf 2015 conference [here](http://confengine.com/selenium-conf-2015/proposal/1294/selenide-concise-ui-tests-in-java)!

<br/>

And what's up with you?

<br/>

Andrei Solntsev

selenide.org
