---
layout: post
title: "Released Selenide 3.0"
description: ""
category:
header-text: "A big new year refactoring"
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Hello!

We released Selenide 3.0. Finally!  

NB! Selenide 3.0 is a major upgrade, meaning that something can become broken.
 
Don't be afraid: if you used only public API and didn't used @Deprecated methods, then nothing changes for you.
But if you did, read carefully. 

## Historical notes

The first version Selenide 1.0 was created in year 2011. We silently tested and tuned it for more than a year.  

In March 2013 we went to SeleniumCamp conference in Kiev and released Selenide 2.0 there.
In 2.0 we cleaned up all the legacy and left only the new API.
Then was the first "public" version of Selenide 2.0 born.
At that moment, `SelenideElement` has only a dozen of methods and was called `ShouldableWebElement`. :)

Since that we released 25 versions Selenide, it got a lot of new functions, and its own legacy @Deprecated methods.
We needed changes.

That's why we finally released Selenide 3.0

## New functions in Selenide 3.0

There is only one new function - method `Selenide.updateHash()`. It's useful for testing rich ajax applications that 
react to "#" changes in URL. Method `updateHash()` changes "#bla-bla" part of current URL without reloading the page. 

Look [here](https://github.com/codeborne/selenide/blob/master/src/test/java/integration/UpdateHashTest.java) for usage example. 

> Thanks to @fabienbancharel for pull request #254

## Upgraded dependencies

* upgraded to Sizzle 2.2.1
* upgraded to Guava 19.0
* upgraded to TestNG 6.9.10

It only affects you if you use some of these libraries. 

## Big refactoring
  
* We refactored class `AbstractSelenideElement`. 
Now, instead of one huge class, we have a lot of small classes (in package `com.codeborne.com.commands`). 
Everyone of them has its own responsibility. 
* You can easily override any of `SelenideElement` methods.
* You can even add your own methods to standard Selenide and Selenium methods. 

We will describe these great options in details in a separate post, but you can look to examples in 
[Selenide tests](https://github.com/codeborne/selenide/tree/master/src/test/java/integration/customcommands).

> Thanks to Iakiv Kramarenko for his ideas and night discussions.


## Big cleanup

Like we announce earlier, we cleaned up all the old stuff.

* Remove deprecated conditions:
  * `notPresent` -> Use method `$.shouldNot(exist)` or `$.shouldNotBe(present)`.
  * `hasOptions` -> Not needed anymore. Use methods `$.selectOption()` or `$.selectOptionByValue()`.
  * `options` -> Not needed anymore. Use methods `$.selectOption()` or `$.selectOptionByValue()`.
  * `hasNotClass` -> Use method `$.shouldNotHave(cssClass("abc"))`
* Remove deprecated class JQuery
* Remove deprecated class PrettyReportCreator (use class `TextReport` for JUnit or TestNG)
* Remove deprecated methods
  * `Selenide.switchToWindow(title)` -> use method `switchTo().window(title)`
  * `Selenide.switchToWindow(index)` -> use method `switchTo().window(index)`
* Remove deprecated methods
  * `WebDriverRunner.ie()` -> use method `WebDriverRunner.isIE()`
  * `WebDriverRunner.htmlUnit()` -> use method `WebDriverRunner.isHtmlUnit()`
  * `WebDriverRunner.phantomjs()` -> use method `WebDriverRunner.isPhantomjs()`
  * `WebDriverRunner.takeScreenShot()` -> use method `Screenshots.takeScreenShot()`
* Remove deprecated methods
  * `$.should*(String message, Condition condition)` -> use method `$.should*(condition.because(message))`
* Remove class com.codeborne.selenide.impl.Quotes 
  because it was migrated to Selenium Webdriver (org.openqa.selenium.support.ui.Quotes)

Feel free to give feedback if you get something broken. 

<br/>
<br/>

# News

* Selenide got to [Best tools and sites for Java in 2015](http://www.coderbucket.com/best-tools-sites-java/)
* Article about Selenide in Java Advent Calendar 2015 [Effective UI tests with Selenide](http://www.javaadvent.com/2015/12/effective-ui-tests-with-selenide.html)
* Article about Selenide in Japan [Selenide Java Library：簡単なことは簡単に，Web UI テスト自動化の敷居を下げ，生産性をあげる魔法の Wrapper](http://qiita.com/kazuki-ma/items/d6432fc41c82538a61bd)

<br/>

Happy new year!

I wish you fast and effective tests. 

<br/>

Andrei Solntsev

selenide.org
