---
layout: post
title: "Selenide 4.2 released"
description: ""
category:
header-text: "Browsers and cloud services"
tags: []
---

{% include JB/setup %}

<br/>
Hi!

With 4.х we've just started to add usefull features for communication with the constantly changing environment,
and in this version we made a great step forward in supporting browsers.  

## Suport of legacy Firefox driver. [#431](https://github.com/codeborne/selenide/issues/431)

As you may know, Firefox, starting with Firefox 48, is not supported by built-in Selenium driver
(let's name itlegacy driver). You must use new marionette/gecko driver, which also works with
the older version of Firefox, but, it is not yet that stable in many cases. We exprienced many projects
with a large number of test switched to use Firefox 45 ESR, with the legacy driver, instead of the newest
Firefox, because of high costs for analysis and changes for broken tests with the new driver.
In 4.2 you may choose, which driver to use for Firefox version <=47


Use `Configuration.browser="firefox"` (or System property `-Dselenide.browser=firefox`) 
to use legacy Firefox Driver (Firefox<=47) built in Selenium.

Use `Configuration.browser="gecko"` or `Configuration.browser="marionette"` (the same) 
to use geckodriver (any Firefox version). If driver is not in your executable path, you may need to
setup the path in SystemProperty `webdriver.gecko.driver` 
(for example `-Dwebdriver.gecko.driver=/Users/mmeier/Downloads/geckodriver-0.11`)

##  Microsoft Edge support

We added new value for browser - `Configuration.browser="edge"`. Don't forget to set the path to
MicrosoftWebDriver.exe in SystemProperty `webdriver.edge.driver`

## Better support for https site with invalid certificates. 

In this version we turn on a capability, that helps to avoid error with invalid SSL certificates for many cases.
You don't need to change anything in your test, the improvement is automatically active.


##  Support of custom capabilities and cloud services (BrowserStack, SauceLabs etc.) [#379](https://github.com/codeborne/selenide/issues/379)

Until now, Selenide users did not have easy way to ask for custom capabilites for the browser.
Beginning from 2.4 System properties prefixed with `capabilities.*` automatically processed by
Selenide as DesiredCapabilities.
Among other things it helps to start your test by popular cloud service changing no line of your test code!
  
As example, let's start you tests at BrowserStack (of course, you must register and get username & auth_key from the service first)
under Windows 7 with Firefox 48 screen resolution 1680х1050. Just pass the parameters to your test runner:

```
-Dremote=https://<username>:<auth_key>@hub-cloud.browserstack.com/wd/hub
-Dcapabilities.os=windows
-Dcapabilities.os_version=7
-Dcapabilities.browser=firefox
-Dcapabilities.browser_version=48.0
-Dcapabilities.resolution=1680x1050
```

Please refer to the documentation of your cloud service about capabilities which should be set to get the desired environment.

## Other changes

* Fixed [#433](https://github.com/codeborne/selenide/issues/433) bypass spawning local browser
* Added method `$.selectOptionContainingText(String)` [#391](https://github.com/codeborne/selenide/issues/391) - select option by substring.
* Fixed problem with screenshot of too large WebElements [#378](https://github.com/codeborne/selenide/issues/378)



<br/>
<br/>

Upgrade to 4.2 today!

[Alexei Vinogradov & Selenide Community](https://github.com/codeborne/selenide)

ru.selenide.org
