---
layout: post
title: "Selenide 4.2.1 released"
description: ""
category:
header-text: "Capabilities & ChromeOption & FirefoxProfile"
tags: []
---

{% include JB/setup %}

<br/>
Hi!

This is a bugfix and enhancements release following "4.2(Browsers)"

## Fixed usage of boolean/integer capabilities as command line system properties.

Since this release capabilities values are automatically converted to boolean/integer if transferred in SystemProperties,
so for example the following parameters will be working fine

```
-Dcapabilities.rotatable=true
-Dcapabilities.elementScrollBehavior=1
```


##  Firefox: support for FirefoxProfile preferences over command line

Good news for users who need to transfer FirefoxProfile preferences to the WebDriver. 
`firefoxprofile.*` are now automatically processed by Selenide and transferred to Firefox and Marionette drivers.

Example:

```
-Dfirefoxprofile.browser.startup.homepage=http://www.google.com
```

Consult the list of available profile preferences with actual Firefox documentation.

##  Chrome: support for ChromeOptions arguments over command line

Also chrome users benefit. ChromeOptions arguments are now applicable without need to extend classes. 
`chromeoptions.args=<comma-separated-args>` are automatically processed by Selenide and transferred to Chrome driver. 
Multiple arguments are separated by comma.
At the same time Configuration.chromeSwitches and -Dselenide.chromeSwitches are deprecated
as they only allowed a single argument.

Example:

```
-Dchromeoptions.args=--diagnostics,--disable-blink-features 
```

Consult the list of available arguments with actual Chrome documentation.

Best automation with 4.2.1!

[Alexei Vinogradov & Selenide Community](https://github.com/codeborne/selenide)

